our latest GM special report is looking
at sales data to determine the
popularity of AMD and Intel CPUs amongst
our readers with dive down data on
average selling price popularity by
series so our 5r7
i7 i9 and so on and intel versus and the
monthly sales volume we ran a similar
report in april of this year but with
Rison 3000 behind us we now have a lot
more data to look at we'll be comparing
three full years of affiliate purchase
data through retail partners to analyze
product popularity among the gamers and
axis readers and viewers before that
this video is brought to you by be quiet
and it's straight power 11 series power
supplies the straight power 11 PSU is
shipped from 450 Watts up to a thousand
Watts accommodating most of the gaming
PC build requirements you'd encounter
and focuses on delivering a higher
quality power supply that doesn't
sacrifice on efficiency or stability
noise is also a heavy point for the
straight power 11 using a 135
millimeters silent wins 3 fan that can
spin as low as 200 rpm for quieter low
load operation learn more at the link in
the description below
this year's busy launch cadence has
meant nearly non-stop reviews for CPUs
and GPUs alike and for the past 6 months
it's been a lot of AMD and Vinnies had a
few launches that have garnered
attention the 1660s super as an example
did fairly well but today we're looking
at CPUs and for competition into the CPU
space its Intel and AMD obviously and
then beyond that it comes down to
individual skews which we're going to be
comparing as well so we'll have series
data look at what's happened to i-5 as
r5 has come out and how has the i9 CPU
impacted the high end and average
selling price of CPUs in general Intel's
biggest travels have been supply
shortages and the 10 nanometer delay and
on the supply side of things we've
covered Intel's supply shortage on 14
nanometer probably nearly eight once
every one to two weeks in our hardware
news videos for over a year now there
was a brief period of a couple months to
reprieve for Intel but that has dried up
so Intel's back in a shortage that's
impact of the sales availability of the
processors in general and 10 nanometer
delay is meant there's nothing new so
ultimately for the 2019 year of 2019
the company was barely present in the
enthusiast segment at all even still
Intel is dominating pre-built computer
sales we'll talk about that today
and ultimately DIY enthusiast is an
incredibly small part of the market but
also the only one that we can look at
and analyze AMD meanwhile has had
back-to-back launches in rapid
succession which have managed to
dominate media coverage for the better
part of the year today's coverage will
look at affiliate sales data over
multiple years for a gamer's nexus net
readers and Cara's axis YouTube viewers
just like last time we need to establish
a couple of base guidelines that are
important to know for this type of
content so the first one to know is that
we don't represent the entire computer
market and we have no visibility to
markets outside of our own we can't
track sales that happen outside of our
audience and so the mainstream part of
the PC market and the notebook side of
the market Enterprise Server we don't
have data for there's data out there but
it's not ours and you can go find it if
you want to look into that more when we
provide percentages here the numbers in
this content will only be accounting for
our audience that's gamers axis viewers
and readers and we can't really
extrapolate this data market wide
secondly month-to-month of sales market
share or a month-to-month sales volume
both of those things are we're using
them interchangeably they are not the
same as total market share period
deployments so we're not looking at how
many global deployments of Intel or AMD
there are but rather the sales per month
of CPUs from each company and Intel's
had so much spread over the years
especially when and he wasn't really
doing anything that even if AMD were at
100% sales volume month-to-month through
our viewers it would take basically
decades for them to ever catch up
because you're looking at a subsection
of the market of a subsection of the
market because once you get down to us
meaning not counting Linus and all the
people who don't even know he exists and
there's a lot of those too once you get
all the way down to us it's it's a
smaller section of the market but we're
still working with thousands of data
points for CPU sales and the enthusiast
audience so next thing to know and if
you want more on the total market share
you can look at the latest steam
hardware survey which says 20 percent of
seam users are using AMD now which is an
uptick but that's also still a gaming
audience 0.3 out of
we have no data for enterprise both
Intel and AMD airlock and a hard fight
there and that's a very important one
but we can't talk about it today and
finally one of the most important is
that the data in this video will be
affected by our own recommendations in
the past videos and articles so because
people come to us for reviews and
recommendations it's likely that
products and product purchases will skew
towards the same the things that we like
and skew away from the things that we
don't like and that will affect the data
of course then we're also rounding to
the nearest whole number for this so
results.we plus or minus 0.5 percent ok
let's get into it
we'll start with our year-over-year
sales volume plot for ambient Intel this
includes data from our April edition of
this report but has expanded with new
data out to November 30th of 2019 we
previously stopped in March and now
we're all the way up through December to
quickly recap November and December of
2016 so I am D yet it's the lowest point
in jeans 12 year history where we could
measure affiliate data anyway with Intel
selling about 93 percent of CPUs against
Andy's rough 7 percent in those months
white diamonds first encountered with
the 7700 K in January of 2017 mark major
desktop CPU release dates for each
company Andy saw a surge of sales in
February as the old FX stock was dumped
for cheap and risin pre-orders began
with Andy notching a major sales month
with the rise in 1000 r CH when it
released the r5 launched sustained that
for a bit but in top reorders went live
for the 7000 series extreme edition
ships in june allowing it to recover
some ground the 8700 k launched in
October of 2017 burning 7700 K buyers
but supporting Intel at 70% sales versus
Andy's 34 the same month at this point
it became a fierce battle with both
companies equally engaged
each launching processors that did
manage to outdo the competitors
processor for that segment things
bounced up and down through October of
2018 when Intel launched the 9900 K and
saw its last month
of any meaningful holdover AMD this was
at about 60% sales volume for the month
after this Andy surged to over 80
percent in March of 2019 doubling its
percentage stake of sales volume from
2017 March in just two years
it also dipped below Intel one final
in May of 2019 before remaining in the
lead for the rest of this chart the
chart is now flipped from how it started
with Andy still clawing away large sales
numbers from Intel each month the
horizon 3000 release in July allowed
Andy to move a to nearing 90 percent for
the first time in our operating history
and the November launch of the 39 50 X
third over 3 and more importantly Black
Friday sales of other our 5 and our 7
chips allowed AMD to take about 93
percent of sales volume for one month
with Intel down to about seven percent
for our tracked CPU sales this is a
complete reversal from December of 2017
at present it looks like Intel won't
have anything for at least another year
and maybe more than that so this is
likely what the chart will look like for
the foreseeable future for DIY
enthusiasts that chart paints a good
picture for Andy but there's a lot more
to it than that Andy is still losing
hard in the system integrator and om
space and while we don't have our own
numbers to track sales volume per month
there we do have people we can talk to
speaking with a handful of system
integrators and OMS off record we
learned that some system integrators are
still signed 70 to 80 percent or more in
some instances of systems with Intel
CPUs installed although things look grim
for Intel and DIY it still has a
stronghold in pre-built Andy even
acknowledged this in January of 2019
when it told us that its next big goal
was getting closer to system integrators
this was at CES and these are also
lacking in its retail education where
traditional retailers like Best Buy lack
the employee training required to
adequately explain the difference
between AMD and Intel systems this is an
AMD problem first and foremost and it's
something that the company needs to
address by building inroads for pre
builds and the sellers of them
unfortunately the solution to this
problem will likely involve money as
well in the form of MDF or a training
allowance but once Andy can justify that
it may be able to change some of the
pre-built market average selling price
is next this is an important indicator
to where each brand falls in the market
but is also an indicator as to how much
revenue a company is doing overall even
if the margin were the same high ASP is
appealing to investors for 2016 before
Aizen launched Andy's average selling
price through our audience was just a
hundred and four dollars which is
represented mostly by fire sale at
experts and maybe some ap use the 2017
numbers evened up with Intel on the rise
as the Intel Core i5 CPUs were no longer
considered good enough allowing i7 CPUs
to drive up ASB and these rise and
launch increased its average selling
price by more than 2x versus the
previous year which was mostly ap use
2018 continued this with these n plus
1/2 stab holding a in DS position Intel
now with the 9900 K under its belt for
end of year and the 8700 K for the
beginning of the year has moved up to
$371 average sign price the entire
enthusiasts DIY market was shifting
toward more expensive processors first
quarter of 2019 saw a dip in ASP for
Andy mostly results of our affiliate
sales tracking so many rise in one and
rise in to sales like actual discounts
the 2600 axon 2700 xq parts for instance
were dropped Intel continued to grow
boosting up to 410 ASP and we should
note that this isn't just a
representation of trend shifts and what
people buy but also a shift in what
Intel is able to even sell or AMD for
that matter but Intel's more affected
here Intel still made plenty of i5 CPUs
but with no one buying them until was
relegated almost entirely to the 9900 K
and to some extent the 9700 K the rest
was stuck on shelves thus driving up ASP
finally the new data points in this
video is four quarters two to four of
2019 Andy moved up to $239 ASP thanks to
rise in 3000 but we're still averaged
down by high sales volume of older 2000
series parts for chief the r5 2600 for
instance has about $115 recently that's
great value and a good buy and we're
happy to see a CPU company at all
discounting its products considering
Intel has never done that but it does
bring the averages down and I'll also
fell a bit down to 395 and that's from
its own recent price reductions albeit
smaller ones time to look at some graphs
of the popularity by Series these are
the last two this will help us
understand what our GN viewers and
readers are actually buying individually
the first one is for Intel these
percentages are against the company's
total processor sales for gamers Nexus
viewers and readers each year the
percentages do not factor in the other
company here AMD in this instance at all
the bars represent years with the
horizontal axis representing each of the
processor categories by name
for Intel the entire low-end has been
lost in our audience Pentium seller ons
and a 3s were never popular with our
viewers to begin with which makes sense
given the enthusiasts slant of our
buyers but Core i5 CB s were big in 2016
and that's probably around the last time
we said that an i5 is enough for gaming
or close to it over the past few years
core i5 sales have fallen from as high
as 48% of Intel's total sales to our
viewers to as low as 14% again that's
not 14% total processor sales but 14% of
Intel's processor sales for that year or
quarter the trend has moved too heavily
toward i7 and nine-nine CPUs with a big
uptick for i7 9700 K sales for end of
2019 the i9 9900 K is Intel's strongest
Bastion right now AMD's chart is next
for this one FX is finally dead the r3
series is barely selling since it's just
AP use now and the R 5 Series is
burgeoning given that VR 5 3600 is
probably the best balanced CPU right now
these numbers make sense the new r9
series still comprised 4% of a in these
total processor sales for the latter
three-quarters of 2019 and they were
only available in well since they
launched in July which is a good
percentage when considering the r9 cpus
are relegated to the 3900 axon 3950 x
cpus thread ripper hasn't moved any
volume for most of 2019 mostly because
the 39 60 X and somebody axe haven't
been available via retail yet or not in
any meaningful quantity and the r7
series has had a bit of a decline and we
suspect that more of the purchases in
the future will split between our five
and our nine going forward with our 7
likely receiving closer to the 30% mark
over time so remembering all the earlier
listed points in the beginning of this
video then the takeaway is that Intel's
had a pretty rough here it's time for
Intel to get moving at this point it's
not a challenge of money or talent or
engineering capability or manpower it's
a challenge of the technology currently
available and Intel's ability to or lack
of ability to accelerate
getting to a newer 10 nanometer 7/8 or
whatever their node may be but
Intel's ability to get to the next
product is the real challenge and time
is something you can only account for so
much especially when you are your own
fab that's a big challenge for Intel fab
space is a problem as well
so for intel to compete in the DIY
enthusiast market if it wants to
hopefully it will stay in this market in
any competitive fashion it really needs
to get past refreshes the night her KS
was just a 9900 k except with an S at
the end of it and a higher stock
frequency so it over clocks a little
better well you're talking about
overclocking as the main selling point
of a product and at that point the sales
volume is going to be really small the
amount of people who actually overclock
it's pretty low and we're talking like
less than 10% of anyone who ever builds
a computer based on some of the sales
data we've seen from from teams that
make softer that collect a lot of data
but we can't say who they are because
they don't want you to know but it's
under 10% overclocking I'm not going to
give an exact exact number because I may
have changed so 900k asks not really a
wide market to target with that the ten
nine eight exe is functionally a refresh
of the 79 a DXE which is about two years
old now so that's not exciting either
it's got mitigations that made it a bit
slower in some tasks and otherwise
unaffected but ours overclocked a little
better but again not really a big sales
item especially once you're already in a
EDT and a DDT was a strong point for
Intel as was the night I heard Kay and
those the 900 K is still are but Intel
is basically holding in the i9 segment
while AMD is the most dominant in the
$200 price segment and thread Ripper at
time of filming this is still basically
unavailable it's technically released
it's technically available but there's
no supply so we don't have any any
threader for 3000 series sales data to
look at but it is reasonable to assume
that the h EDT market will start to go
away for Intel as well if those thread
reports ever become more widely
available and they probably will but
they're likely being bent for epic as is
the 3950 x set of chips that would be
good for those CPUs they'd also be good
for epic so Andy's 3900 axon 39 50x
while good have had limited supply and
have allowed Intel to hold its position
in the i-9 segment and
still doesn't have a CPU that covers the
gaming only or FPS snob type of player
like intel does so that's another
division in the market where and these
lacking something intel doesn't have it
at this point it's one of the only
things that intel does have that's
favorable for it so that's the recap of
the data our most recent numbers have
AMD at in the 90s four percent of sales
volume per month through our viewers and
we've done a lot of AMD coverage we
haven't recommended all the parts but if
you look at some of the numbers in the
data as it's broken down certainly for
example more 3800 axes and 3600 axes
sold than you would have thought
considering we said don't buy either one
of those because the lower tiered ones
made more sense to us but I guess the
only point of saying that is even though
our content will skew the purchases
there's still a lot of people who don't
listen to us but still buy through our
links so even with that offset Intel's
just not looking good and that's all
there is to it although I will say the
i-5 segment it seems like people have
generally gotten the notice that don't
bother buying those at this point thanks
for watching that's it for this one
subscribe for more he can go to store
documents access net to helps out
directly like by buying one of these or
the mod mats and you go to
patreon.com/scishow gamers Nexus if
you'd like to support us there as well
we'll see you all next time
[Music]